So how can we get information about the category we clicked on we selected from this category screen
to the category meals screen while on the categories screen where we navigate to category meals.
For it is navigation action.
Besides the rude name we can also pass the parents.
That's another key does optic you past navigate accepts and this takes itself the object of key value
pairs of any key value pairs and as many key value pairs as you want.
So these are simply parameters extra data you're passing to the new screen which is being loaded.
Now they are you could set up a parameter named category I.D. and the name is only a few that could
be just I.D..
See I.D. or my hobby whatever your building and whatever data you need to forward here we're forwarding
a category idea hence I will name it such.
This now should be in our scenario here of course.
The idea of the category we tapped on.
Now of course we're getting our item data here for each grid item which is rendered.
This holds the item and this has a title a color and well an I.D..
So the category idea is item data dot item dot I.D..
Now we're forwarding that I.D. to the new screen which is being loaded.
That of course is important thing here.
This allows us to then use that data in that new screen how well let's go there.
Let's go to the category meals screen and see how we can extract that parameter.
We know that we'll get one.
How can we now get access to it.
For this we can again use props navigation.
So this special Prop. getting because this component here is getting loaded with the help of a react
navigation navigator and on navigation we don't just have navigate and portions on.
We also have get Perrin a method provided to extract a parameter we receive get param takes a string
with the name of the parameter we want to extract and of course that should be the name you chose here
as a key in that parents object.
So here I added category I.D. hence that's the name I want to use here.
This will give me the cat idea that category I.D. This will give me the value we're storing here on
that key name in this case.
That's the idea.
So that's devalue.
We're extracting for category Eddie in the category meals screen.
So now we have the cat idea and we can now use that to of course get access to all the meals that fit
into this category.
Right now we have no meals so we'll have to postpone this but at least we can also use this to get our
category title and use that here and for that all we need to do of course is we need to import categories
or categories array here from data dummy data and we have to I.D. We have an array of categories of
course we can find our selected category or whatever you want to name it by having a look at categories
and there we can use find which takes a function which it executes on every element in the array.
So in every category and gives us the item where this function returns true which should be the case
of the idea for the category we're looking at matches the cat I.D. We're retrieving from our parents.
This gives us these selected category.
And to prove that this works I'll output it here in a text component I'll output selected category data
title here now with that if we go back and we navigate to that category we see Italian here right above
my buttons we see quick and easy now.
So that is working this is how we're passing data forward and how we're extracting it.
And of course you can pass multiple parameters as many as you need and parameters don't have to be I.D.
you could pass objects you could pass text numbers and erase whatever data you need to pass you can
pass you might notice however that of course with Dad we're able to use our category here in our screen
but we want to use it here in the header.
Well let's tackle that in the next lecture.